Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we are going to be disabling the action that the player was doing when they will enter
the cinematics trigger volume and also removing controls no matter how much I'm clicking around the
world here.
We are not able to move the player an inch but when the cinematic is finished we are back in control
and we can go and try and attack these guards and beat them up and play the game play our moment.
Let's dive in and see how it's done so we're able to get the right log messages.
But this isn't disabling control we do actually want to do that.
But before we dive into disabling control I want to show you a little problem that even if I wasn't
controlling so let me just not select the follow camera if I just click on this guard I'm now not clicking
anything.
Okay.
And watch what happens.
I'm not giving it any control inputs so it wouldn't matter if we disabled control but I went up to the
guard and killed them because that was the last last action I had given.
So what we actually want to do is we've got our action scheduled.
It's got a cancel current action we want to call cancel current action when we enter this trigger volume
whatever we were trying to do before whether we're trying to attack a guard and kill it.
That should now stop because we've entered this trigger volume.
So how do we do that.
Well first of all we want to get hold of our play can play itself the player game object so to do that
we're going to use game object dots find with Tag and we're looking for the player tag.
OK I'm going to store that into a game object called player and then on the new line we can get hold
of the players get components of type action scheduler for that I'm going to have to include using RPG
core and look for the action scheduler and do a cancel current action.
Now what would happen if we go and play now.
In fact let's give it a go.
So you believe me if I click play and I click on the guard we are still going to run up to the guard
but notice we're not trying to attack him we're just running to that location so to some extent the
council worked it worked in some sense that it cancelled the fact that we're trying to attack the guard.
But what it didn't do is cancel the movement that we had started.
So if you have a look at the fighter the way we do this is that if we're not in range we tell the mover
to move to this target position but at no point do we stop that while we stop that once we get in range.
But if we don't get in range.
When do we stop it.
We don't.
If we cancel the attack half way we never stop it.
We just remove the target.
So the way to do this would be to when we cancel a fighter we also cancel anything that was going on
in the move up so that that can't that kind of thing can't happen.
This is basically a bug that we didn't have we didn't have exhibited because anything that could cancel
the fighter was the mover and the mover would then subsequently go on to tell it to moved somewhere
else but here where we've got nothing else for it to do it we need to be able to cancel they go.
You saw it happen he actually stopped in this place it in his place when he entered the trigger volume.
He stopped moving instantly.
So that's what we want.
And let's just check it one more time with if we were just moving to another location so if I'm just
moving to this pace past the trees I stop I go in to the transition of the cinematic.
So that's working except that now I do still have the problem that if I walk into there it stops but
if I click somewhere I'm still in control.
So we want to be able to disable control and I think with the structure we've got in place here you
should be able to find that pretty easily done.
So oh no you don't we don't want them to go off and stop playing while we're doing a cinematic stop
the player from being able to control.
I think the best way to do this is to disable the component the player controller component.
Now see if you can find maybe a little bit of googling is required to do this but see if you can find
how you can disable a component is a generic thing not something that you have to do specifically or
change anything in the player controller code.
That's the nice thing about this to stop the player from controlling and then re enable control at the
end of the cinematic poser video and have a go.
OK.
Welcome back.
So let's see if you figure this one out.
So first things first we're going to have to use the player game object to get component and we're getting
the component of type player controller.
Now this one's not here.
So we're gonna have to include a name space for control and then we are going to call dot enable which
is a property on any components and we can just set that to false.
Hopefully you found that in your googling your research or you just remembered okay.
And then we want to re enable in and enable control method so set enable control to true in here.
Now the player isn't accessible.
I'm actually going to move this up to the class level so I'm gonna cut and paste the find the game object
find into start and I'm going to make game object player.
Can I make that there.
There are handy helpful hints.
Allows me to bring this up to the level.
No there isn't.
So I had to copy this.
I'm going to make it a private variable of the cinematic control remover.
Just collect cash.
The player and I'm going to update that and start to be the player and then we can use it in both of
these methods so hopefully that should do the trick.
Let's see.
So I'm going to walk over the bridge that stops and then I'm going to click somewhere in the world and
hopefully that's having no effect.
Yes indeed.
I go to the scene I can see my player is no longer being moved by that.
So however I can then get control again when the cinematic has finished.
So that's all wonk working hunky dory exactly how we would like it to work.
We've enabled or enabled disabling of player control.
Now that was the last piece of the puzzle to getting our cinematic moment set up and I think you'll
agree that it now feels quite nice and you can obviously go ahead and make it feel even more polished
than this.
Spend more time on it and your own bits and pieces in fact I would very much like to see what your cinematic
moment ends up looking like and how the moment as a whole plays all of this bit where you are then having
to go through the level and beat up the guards do record a video of this and post it against the forum
topic for this lecture.
I look forward to seeing them.